---
title:  "Connecting Nuxt.js to MQTT"
date: 2017-11-18
permalink: /posts/2017/11/nuxt-mqtt
tags: 
  - nuxt
  - mqtt 
  - iot

---

In this blog post I'll talk about how to connect Nuxt.js to MQTT.

# Introduction

MQTT has become the de facto of IoT. According to the statistics after HTTP 
it is the most used protocol for the connectivity layer
of IoT devices. In this blog post you'll learn how to combine this amazing 
protocol with Nuxt.js.


# Getting Started

## Prerequisites

This tutorial assumes that you already know what is Vue.js. If don't you 
can read about it [here](https://vuejs.org/).

## Installing Nuxt.js

First install Nuxt.js:

As stated in the [docs](https://nuxtjs.org/guide/installation) installing
is pretty simple.

```sh
$ vue init nuxt-community/starter-template <project-name>
```

Then simply install the dependencies.

```sh
$ cd <project-name>
$ npm install
```

```sh
$ npm run dev
```

Now you should be able to view the the site on http://localhost:3000.

## Nuxt plugins

> Nuxt.js allows you to define JavaScript plugins to be run before instantiating the root vue.js application. This is especially helpful when using your own libraries or external modules.
> Nuxtjs.org

For more information about Nuxt.js plugins you can read about [here](https://nuxtjs.org/guide/plugins).

So lets use it! 

### Add required dependencies

```sh
$ npm i --save vue-mqttsocket
```

This is a vue plugin that registers mqtt on Vue instance globally we'll see
how to use it later.

### Create a nuxt plugin

Create a new nuxt plugin by adding ```vue-mqttsocket``` 
plugin in ```plugins/mqtt.js``` .

In order to do so, put the following content in it.

```javascript
import Vue from 'vue'

if (process.browser) {
  const mqtt = require('vue-mqttsocket').default
  Vue.use(mqtt, {uri: 'ws://localhost:8083/mqtt'})
}
```

Make sure to replace the uri with your MQTT broker address.

Also, add the section below in the end of ```nuxt.config.js```.

```js
 plugins: [
    'plugins/mqtt.js'
  ],
```

This will register the plugin in the nuxt.

### Usage

Now you can register it in everypage that you need MQTT in a very simple way.
All you have to do is to put the code below in the mounted section of 
your page:

```javascript
async mounted() {
    this.$mqtt = await this.$mqtt
}
```

If you were successful you'll be able to see a ``` MQTT connected!``` message
in the log of your browser.

Now publishing and subscribing is super simple.

To publish:

```javascript
this.$mqtt.publish('mytopic', 'Hello MQTT from NUXT')
```


To subscribe:

```javascript
this.$mqtt.on('message', (topic, message, packet) => {
    // Your code to deal with packets arrived
})
```

