---
title: "Artificial Intelligence as a Service (AI-aaS) on Software-Defined Infrastructure"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2019-07-11-ai-aas
excerpt: 'This paper investigates a paradigm for offering artificial intelligence as a service (AI-aaS) on software-defined infrastructures (SDIs).'
date: 2019-07-11
venue: 'IEEE CSCN '19'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.05505v1'
---

This paper investigates a paradigm for offering artificial intelligence as a service (AI-aaS) on software-defined infrastructures (SDIs). The increasing complexity of networking and computing infrastructures is already driving the introduction of automation in networking and cloud computing management systems. Here we consider how these automation mechanisms can be leveraged to offer AI-aaS. Use cases for AI-aaS are easily found in addressing smart applications in sectors such as transportation, manufacturing, energy, water, air quality, and emissions. We propose an architectural scheme based on SDIs where each AI-aaS application is comprised of a monitoring, analysis, policy, execution plus knowledge (MAPE-K) loop (MKL). Each application is composed as one or more specific service chains embedded in SDI, some of which will include a Machine Learning (ML) pipeline. Our model includes a new training plane and an AI-aaS plane to deal with the model-development and operational phases of AI applications. We also consider the role of an ML/MKL sandbox in ensuring coherency and consistency in the operation of multiple parallel MKL loops. We present experimental measurement results for three AI-aaS applications deployed on the SAVI testbed: 1. Compressing monitored data in SDI using autoencoders; 2. Traffic monitoring to allocate CPUs resources to VNFs; and 3. Highway segment classification in smart transportation.


```
@article{DBLP:journals/corr/abs-1907-05505,
  author    = {Saeedeh Parsaeefard and
               Iman Tabrizian and
               Alberto Leon{-}Garcia},
  title     = {Artificial Intelligence as a Services (AI-aaS) on Software-Defined
               Infrastructure},
  journal   = {CoRR},
  volume    = {abs/1907.05505},
  year      = {2019},
  url       = {http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.05505},
  archivePrefix = {arXiv},
  eprint    = {1907.05505},
  timestamp = {Wed, 17 Jul 2019 10:27:35 +0200},
  biburl    = {https://dblp.org/rec/bib/journals/corr/abs-1907-05505},
  bibsource = {dblp computer science bibliography, https://dblp.org}
}
```
